---
description: >-
  This plugin is utilized to log any building/destruction of blocks to further
  increase transparency of the server. Data is stored in a MySQL Database and
  can be viewed by any user.
---

# 🔓 CoreProtect

#### [Plugin Page](https://www.spigotmc.org/resources/coreprotect.8631/)

#### [Documentation](https://docs.coreprotect.net/)

### View Block Audit

1. run _`/cp inspect`_
2. left click on desired block
3. see audit
4. run _`/cp inspect`_ to disable inspection

### Core Features

* Fast efficient data logging.
* Fast rollbacks - no lag while performing rollbacks/restores.
* Multi-threaded to ensure server performance is never impacted
* No configuration required. Put the plugin on your server, and you're good to go.
* SQLite based data storage.
* Optional MySQL support.
* Easy to use commands.
* Perform rollbacks AND restores. Undo any rollback, anytime.
* Easy to use block inspector
* Advanced search-based lookup tool.
* Paginated logs with clickable pagination.
* Automatic update checker.
* Multi-world support.
* Enable or disable any aspect of logging in the configuration file.
* Rollback per-player, or just do a global rollback to all damage around you.
* Specify certain block types to skip in rollbacks/restores.
* Restrict rollbacks/restores to specific block types.
* Rollback inventories of online players.
* Log basic player actions (such as when a player opens a door).
* Liquid tracking. Associate liquid flow with players.
* Tree tracking. Trees grown from saplings show who originally planted the sapling.
* Restrict rollbacks/restores to a radius area.
* Supports Spigot permission system.
* Able to track blocks that fall off of other blocks. If a player breaks a block that had a sign on it, both the block and the sign can be rolled back.
* Easily delete old log data.
* Safe default parameters.
* Rollback or restore multiple players at once.
* Create per-world configuration files.
* Lookup, rollback, or restore by a specific action.
* Exclude multiple users or blocks.
* Preview rollbacks or restores.
* Use WorldEdit selections.
* An easy to use API.
* Works with Tekkit servers
* _...and much more!!_

### What does it log?

* Log blocks broken by players
* Log blocks placed by players
* Log natural block breakage (ex: if a sign pops off a dirt block that was broken)
* Log bucket usage
* Log liquid flow
* Log tree growth
* Log mushroom growth
* Log vine growth.
* Log explosions (TNT, Creepers, Ghasts, etc)
* Log flint & steel and fire charge usage.
* Log fire igniting blocks
* Log blocks burning up in fires
* Log entities changing blocks (Endermen/Enderdragons)
* Log block movement (Falling sand/gravel)
* Log leaf decay
* Log player interactions
* Log Nether portal generation
* Log blocks moved by pistons
* Log crops trampled by players
* Log snow generated by snow golems
* Log items taken or placed in chests, furnaces, dispensers, etc.
* Log items crafted or traded with villages.
* Log items dropped or picked up by players.
* Log paintings and item frames. _(With rollback support!)_
* Log entities killed by players _(animals/monsters)_
* Log chat messages and commands used by players.
* Log player sessions _(logins/logouts)_
* Log player deaths
* Log username changes
* Log changes made via WorldEdit
* _...and the list is still expanding!_

### How to use the inspector

Once you have the inspector enabled ("/core inspect", or just "/co i"), you can do the following:

* Left-click a block to see who placed that block.
* Right-click a block to see what adjacent block was removed.
* Right-click (place) a block in a location to see what block was removed at that location.
* Right-click (place) a block in another block to see who placed it. (ex: place dirt in water to see who placed the water)
* Right-click on a door,button,lever,chest,etc, to see who last used it.
